[Music]
[Applause]
this might be the best look into the
future of tech that I've ever
seen so I am one of a very very small
number of people who now has tried both
of the new and very rare real augmented
reality glasses in 2024 The Meta Orion
smart glasses and the Snapchat AR
spectacles neither of them is available
to the public and you'll see why in a
second but also they're both pretty
incredible in very different ways I made
a whole video a few months ago about
this idea but in case you missed that VR
headsets are over here smart glasses are
over here and they're both racing
towards this goldilock Zone in the
center somewhere which would be ar
glasses like virtual reality headsets
are incredible they have tons of tech
amazing immersion super wide field of
view but also they're absolutely massive
and you don't really just go walking
around in public with them at least most
people don't want to but then smart
glasses are the exact opposite they look
like something you might just wear out
in regular everyday life but they can't
really fit that much Tech in them so
you're limited to maybe a camera and
some batteries and speakers and a little
computer inside that's about it so VR
headsets want to shrink down more and
more until they can compact all the tech
and actually look like regular glasses
while smart glasses want to add more and
more Tech as much as they can to be
better while still looking like regular
glasses and so somewhere in the middle
is this fantasy product called augmented
reality
glasses but what if we could pull back
the curtain a little bit and see what
that looks like with today's Tech that
is what these are So Meta and Snapchat
have taken two very very different
approaches to Bringing these creations
to life and neither of these will be
sold to the public and I think that's
probably a good thing neither of them is
exactly ready yet but I still think
they're both super cool and now that
I've used them both I kind of can't help
but compare them to each other so let's
start with meta's Orion Project so they
unveil these on stage at their connect
event a few weeks ago and they've let a
few people try them since then and
they're actually a three-part system it
is the glasses that you wear on your
face and there's also a wireless
computer Puck that must be within about
15 ft of the glasses at all times and
there's also a wrist strap that's
measuring electrical impulses through
your arm and that's used as an input
device Yes you heard that correctly so
combined these three things form an
augmented reality experience unlike
anything I've ever experienced before
now yes there was magic leap and yes
there was Hollow lens and things like
that but now just wearing a pair of what
feels like just transparent glasses
that's actually overlaying tracked
digital things onto the real world in
front of me kind of feels like something
out of Science Fiction the main
challenge actually with making a video
about these things is there isn't really
like screen recording cuz like I said
it's literally I'm looking through glass
and seeing things overlaid onto the real
world which is crazy but the best we can
do is take a firstperson video and then
overlay the graphics from the glasses on
top of the video to sort of give you an
idea of what it looks like to my eye but
it it's really hard to do ad justice but
either way with the meta Orion glasses I
got to walk through three basic demos
here so the first one was just a kind of
basic usage so just imagine sitting down
in some coffee shop or somewhere on a
bench and just scrolling through
Instagram which was a window floating in
the middle of the room that only I could
see and then I did a little bit of
multi- window here and there so I had a
video call going in one spot some other
floating windows with messaging and
Instagram floating around me pretty
basic but still pretty cool the glasses
they're pretty light on my face they
weigh around 100 G the audio from
Instagram since I'm watching reals it
was playing through the built-in
speakers that were right above my ears
and I scrolled through them by making
this gesture with my thumb and swiping
on my own hand so now seeing that you
might believe that uh the cameras and
the sensors on the front of the glasses
are picking up you know my hand doing
this gesture and then doing the scroll
in sync with it there is hand tracking
but it's not for that this gesture would
be picked up anywhere if it was in my
sweatshirt pocket behind my back because
I'm wearing that wristband and this
thing may be the coolest input device
the coolest piece of tech I've tried in
a long time this is the EMG wristband
that they've built EMG stands for
electromyography it's about the size of
a whoop as you can see it has
Electronics built into the textile weave
it has an onboard machine learning
computer that connects via Bluetooth to
the puck and is able to measure the
electronic signals being sent from your
brain to your fingers and it's pretty
great actually if you think about it I
mean your tendons sort of run through
your arm and they're connecting all the
way through your nervous system to your
brain and so the set of electrical
impulses that go through your tendons to
do this gesture is very distinct and
different from the set of impulses when
you do this gesture and also different
from when you do this gesture and so the
wristband can measure those electrical
impulses and pick them up on the way to
your hand and map that to the controls
so even in this prototype version I'm
using it felt like it's getting about
80% accuracy and it was also it had
haptic feedback as well to confirm when
it was getting things right but people I
talked to at meta including CTO BOS say
things like they love this as a really
high sealing new input method and they
could see it developing massively over
time potentially even getting to the
point where they say they could measure
you draw draw letters in midair with an
imaginary pen and it uses those
electrical impulses to map that to real
letters as text input with
handwriting it's crazy so either way
it's working for scrolling through
Instagram here as I'm looking at it in
the glasses I'm also looking at the
Instagram app with my eyes to make sure
that's what I'm controlling because
there is eye control and scrolling with
the gesture it's working that by itself
is pretty cool but they weren't done the
second demo was walking up to a table
with a bunch of ingredients on it
looking at it and doing a gesture and
then asking the built-in AI what type of
smoothie could I make with this stuff
and of course you know there's cameras
on the front meta AI looks at the camera
feed sees a bunch of clearly labeled
ingredients and then the most
recognizable fruits of all time sitting
on a contrasty table and then decides
you know oh you could make a pineapple
smoothie with matcha great but that's
not what the most impressive part of
that was to me what was impressive was
the nice little touch of AR which was
these little blue dots that appeared and
then tracked onto the ingredients on the
table labeling each thing and then
staying on those things as I moved
around and looked around the space it's
such a little thing but it made a big
difference again you have to realize it
it doesn't look amazing through this
video but in real life just picture
yourself looking at objects through your
glasses and seeing labels pop up over
them like that was like sci-fi it was
amazing but so then the third and final
demo was probably the coolest because it
was also a shared spaces demo so there's
two people with classes on so both
people walk up to this QR code in the
middle of the room stare at it for a few
seconds and then that becomes the Anchor
Point for a shared experience in 3D
space which in this case was a game of
3D pong so with the sensors at the front
now it's just shifted to visually
tracking my hand through the air and
mapping that to a paddle and I let me
hit this ball back and forth so I
started getting kind of good at it not
going to lie sorry Ellis competition is
competition going hard in the paint but
yeah this is just pong in real life that
only the people wearing the glasses can
see it's also funny because we felt kind
of cool playing this game but yeah this
is how it looks to people not wearing
the glasses not so fun there is a lot of
complicated technology and Material
Science that goes into making these
glasses work just from the sensors at
the front and at the back pointing at
your eyes pointing at the real world to
the micro LED projectors inside to the
wave guides the silicon carbide material
that's allowing us to refract the light
at an extreme angle without Distortion I
went way into the weeds with this with
CTO of meta BOS uh and I'm going to put
that whole segment on the waveform
podcast it should be out by the time you
watch this but I'll leave a link below
to subscribe to waveform so you can get
into the weeds with us this week on that
stuff but I think what you should take
out of this is this is a this thing is
packed back to the gills they have seven
small sensors and cameras that are
custom designed to do the eye tracking
and environment tracking there's custom
silicon in here to bring all the data
together there's batteries split up to
weight them evenly across your face
there's speakers the frames themselves
are made of magnesium both because it
had to be rigid enough to keep the
lenses in alignment but also because
that made for a good thermal conductor
as the literal heat sink to the Entire
Computer inside they actually made a
working see-through version to help get
us a better idea of how squashed in
there everything is and it overheats
faster because the transparent plastic
is not as good of a heat syn so yeah
these glasses are absolutely thermally
constrained using today's technology and
they have a battery life of about 2 to 3
hours and that's not even to mention the
completely separate compute Puck with a
co-processor where they're offloading
the app logic that is truly a technical
Marvel but all of that adds up to a set
of glasses that was mostly pretty
transparent uh pretty lightweight
comfortable enough to wear for the two
hours before they started to get a
little warm and a little bit heavy on my
ears and then the graphics themselves
that it's overlaying were tracked pretty
well not the highest resolution I've
ever seen but pretty respectable and
with a 70 field of view which meant I
could look around a bit and the graphics
would mostly stay in my line of sight
you can see them start to get cut off at
the edges a little bit and that's
actually how I saw it in real life but
in total it felt like just wearing
slightly thicker slightly heavier than
normal glasses with a little tint and a
little bit of flare but delivering the
most convincing demo of a post
smartphone augmented reality future that
I've ever seen of course none of that
matters right now because met is not
shipping this ever it's kind of a weird
move for a tech company to announce and
show off and demo a new product but then
never actually plan on selling it to
people but
think of it as PR again you can watch
the entire chat with BOS but basically
what I got out of talking to him was
that they believe that continuing to
iterate on this thing that they've made
behind the scenes without all the extra
attention to packaging and marketing and
selling the first thing will allow them
to make something even better in a
second or third iteration that may be
good enough to actually sell ideally it
can be brighter and can have better
battery life of course and have a higher
resolution tion potentially and still
work towards all those things to be a
real shippable deliverable thing for
early adopters especially those wave
guides and the silicon carbide and the
price there's just an immense assumed
price tag for this low volume prototype
that they've made but that's the idea
and I think I actually agree with that
so
these These are the Snapchat AR
spectacles
and uh right off the bat they look
dramatically more like a piece of
technology on my face but
fundamentally same thing is happening in
here I am looking through these glasses
at the real world I can open this up in
front of you the lens there is a menu
right now that you can't see and it's
stuff overlaid over on top of the real
world and it's actually incredible that
it works but there are a few fundamental
differences between these and metas that
I think are really interesting so
difference number one is no separate
computer Puck everything is in these
glasses so I think we can safely assume
that that's why there's so much more
mass here in general um meta's glasses
looked much more like normal glasses but
had an entire separate smartphone size
computer paired to it the entire time
Tethered to it basically these you can
connect to your phone but otherwise they
do operate without any other additional
Hardware everything's in the glasses so
that's definitely way more Hardware on
your face but then difference number two
is materials and build uh most of what
you're looking at here all the way
around is just it's black plastic all
the way around and that's actually kind
of interesting that's not to say that
they're built worse or poorly at all
they're still actually very rigid but I
actually think this is more of a weight
saving measure but then they still
needed a highquality heat sink which is
why there's this metal band on each side
so you can still dissipate heat from the
hottest components using the cooler air
outside of the glasses but in total
these still weigh
228 G and when you put them on they are
I mean they're huge they are massive you
can see the arm extends way back beyond
my ear I mean there's a lot of Mass on
the front of my face they're trying to
be more balanced but I mean there's some
level of appreciation for the fact that
there is no separate computer Puck of
course but like yeah this is this is
today's Tech we're talking about so
there's a lot going on here um but then
that brings us to number three which is
when you actually turn them
on and there's two immediate differences
with the display again I'm I'm not
looking at a lens right now I'm looking
at a menu in front of the lens but it's
the resolution and the field of view now
this is obviously really hard to explain
and show on video and show you what I'm
seeing uh no eye tracking it's just
going to be hand based and gesture based
but on the Snapchat glasses the
resolution of the menus is dramatically
higher everything is much sharper than
the very pixelated looking metag glasses
honestly close to like what Vision Pro
looks like when I'm wearing those but
the field of view is significantly less
I think the number is
46 versus meta is 70 and uh candidly
you notice that a lot now field of view
is normally not so bad that there's any
Interruption of the thing that you're
looking at like straight ahead of you
but it's actually close and this is one
of the biggest differences between them
as some who happens to have used these
and The Meta glasses back to back now I
don't know if immersion is the right
word here but my main way of describing
it is when you're actually using the
glasses you're doing whatever with them
whatever software you whatever overlay
you have pulled up you're not really
thinking about field of view you're just
immersed in the thing using the app
looking forward but the second you start
poking around or moving your head a lot
or observing more of what's around right
in front of you then things get cut off
uh you can actually see this a little
bit at the edges of some apps with the
meta Orion Graphics actually right here
right there at the edge you saw the UI
kind of get clipped off a bit and that's
how it looked to me too my eye sees that
and that was with metas which have the
70 field of view this is even more
restrictive it's really only going to
Overlay things directly in front of you
and if you even turn a little bit it
gets clipped uh there's a golf game in
here which I was playing for a little
bit and it's fun but you know you have
your phone which is mapped to the golf
club and you look down and you can see
the golf ball but you can't see anything
else in in golf your peripheral is very
important so you look up to see the hole
and then look down to see the club and
there's just you keep having to look
back and forth and you hit it and it you
have to track it with your eye just
right so it doesn't leave the field of
view there's just yeah it's it's much
more noticeable with these but probably
my favorite difference actually with the
display or whatever you want to call it
here is the electrochromic tint because
the Snapchat AR spectacles have a
built-in tint made from the same Tech
that snaps the sunroof of the new rivan
from clear to tinted and back it's
actually built into these glasses as
well and so that helps them go from
clear to tinted and that helps
dramatically with readability and
contrast of the things that aren't
supposed to be overlaid over your rear
world so I guess immersion is actually
the right word here maybe it's just a
scoreboard floating in place or a social
media feed or maybe you're on an
airplane and just want to watch a couple
videos you can add the tint and then it
kind of feels a little closer to a VR
headset where the background is faded
away and you're just looking at
something in front of you floating it is
crazy how much Tech is built into these
glasses and then probably the last major
difference here with these is on the
subject of developers developers
developers see both of these glasses are
not real products that are you know
going to ship and be in stores ever uh
but one of them the metag glasses feel
like a super high-end Tech demo and it's
incredible that it works but the other
one these actually these are actually a
developer kit you could theoretically
get your hands on these today and start
making apps for them I mean you'd have
to spend 100 bucks a month and be locked
into the developer program with a
minimum one-year commitment but then you
get these and you're Off to the Races
building lenses for SNAP OS and there's
a bunch of them actually already
available there's that golf app I told
you about there's also a browser app and
a Music Creation app and a Beat saer
equivalent called beatboxer and dozens
more that I can already play with and
there's even more really impressive
shared space experiences like snaps
glasses they don't even require you to
scan a QR code they will actually just
map the room you're in actively as long
as you're looking around with the other
person and it immediately matches you up
and you can now both see and manipulate
the same floating object in 3D space
it's kind of awesome so the golden
question with ar glasses at least for
now is what can you even do with these
things uh then I do like Snap strategy
of just getting these out to people as
early as possible and then just seeing
what they make now me personally I
actually have two dream use cases for uh
AR glasses here the first one is I just
want like any instrument being able to
learn any instrument by having the
visual like the Guitar Hero overlay
piano that's the one you've probably
already seen where the piano notes come
down and you can just sort of match it
up and play piano any instrument I think
that would be incredible but my other
one is so you know how when you're on an
airplane and you look out and you see
like a cool Monument or some like visual
thing that you recognize how super cool
that is what if hear me out you've got
the glasses on it's like glasses AR
airplane App whatever you look out the
airplane window and it outlines like the
territory outlines or the state outlines
or whatever and you can see the scale of
things and it pops up little
monuments and landmarks and things that
you may recognize just by looking out
the airplane window that I think I would
I think that was awesome so you know
clearly more development is needed for
both of these glasses the metag glasses
they have a separate computer in your
pocket right they only have a 2-hour
battery life and an estimated $25,000
retail price thanks to materials and the
Snapchat glasses they have a 45 minute
battery life and they look like this so
yeah the tech the Tech is clearly not
ready to start selling this to real
people yet but you almost can't help but
picture the future that we might have
that we could have maybe even looking at
our phones less if we have this AR
glasses thing actually come to life
maybe someday could be cool thanks for
watching catch you guys the next one
peace
[Music]